Trakas 




Peter Trakas
Grierson
ENG 101
10/26/2025
Peter Trakas’ Ritual Making Report
        “PETER, WHERE ARE YOU?! LET’S LEAVE!!” is what my dad yelled up the stairs to me in the middle of my ritual. We were leaving to go to my grandmother’s, but he wanted to leave thirty minutes earlier than we had decided, which interrupted my ritual. I had asked him if we could leave in a little bit but he said no, so I had to pause my ritual and then continue it when we got back home, which was no big deal. 
        The ritual I engaged with this past month has been to read a book, check Merriam-Webster’s vocabulary word of the day, call my mom, and journal about it every day. At first one of my goals was to improve my time management skills which would be achieved through me needing to find a time every day to set aside for this ritual. Another goal was to improve my focus and concentration which could be achieved through me sitting down and just reading for some time every day and not getting distracted or stopping. My last original goal was to expand my vocabulary which was going to just be achieved through reading the book at the time. But then after our midterm conference I added the goal of improving my relationship with my mom which could be improved by talking to her more often. When I first started one of my rituals was to just read every day, I was not too specific about this in the beginning but then chose when and how much after our midterm conference. The other ritual at the time was to just journal about the ritual, then when I added more it was to also journal about them too. After our midterm conference I added the ritual of checking the daily vocabulary word to help me achieve my vocabulary goal. Also added the goal of improving my relationship with my mom and added the ritual of calling her once a week.
        The details of the ritual are as follows. For the reading on Monday to Thursday I would read four pages, on Friday to Sunday I would read ten pages. But when I had a test coming up I would cut these amounts down, which I think is part of my time management skills because having good time management is deciding what part of your day to cut. For example, as of when I am writing this, I have a math test coming up so I cut the reading down to three pages and five pages on the weekdays and weekends respectively. On Monday and Wednesday I would read in between classes in the library since on those two days my schedule is similar. On Tuesday and Thursday, again, since my schedule is the same on these two days, I would read when I got home from school and had a snack and started homework which was around one o’clock in my room on those days. On Friday and Saturday I work either in the morning, afternoon, or night, it just depends on when they schedule me. So I would read either before or after work depending on what time I worked. On Sunday the only thing I have planned every week is to go to my grandmother’s for dinner with my family, so I chose to read before leaving for her house. I would start homework sometime in the morning around nine or ten o’clock and do it until about three or four o’clock, so I would read sometime in between those two times.  As I am reading I would always do it in front of my laptop or computer, so when I had come across a new vocabulary word I would just look it up then, look at the definition, and go back to reading. After I finished reading, I would start to journal about the reading which would include the day of the ritual I am on, how many pages were read and how I felt about the reading today. Under that I would write down the vocabulary words I learned that day, starting with Merriam-Webster’s vocabulary word of the day and if I already knew it I would still write it down but just say I know what it means and continue on. After the word of the day I would write down my own words I learned and their meanings. If it was Sunday, the day I call my mom, I would write down at the end whether or not I have called her yet, and if I have not then I would usually write on the next day’s journal entry that I called her the previous day.
        Throughout the past month my ritual has changed in many ways. Firstly, I made it more structured in the first week of starting compared to how I had planned it out in the beginning. I also would decide to cut back on some reading if I felt I needed to put more time into studying, as I mentioned earlier. Also I added the goal of improving my relationship with my mom and added the rituals of the daily vocabulary word and calling my mom weekly. My experience during this ritual was pleasant overall. I have improved my relationship with my mom which I enjoy. Also I feel I could say I have reached my other goals as well which is what I wanted. The journaling was something new to me that I have not really done before besides being required to in a past English class which is something I found I have enjoyed. The only thing I disliked about this has been the book, I do not hate it but I also do not really like it. After this  assignment is over, I think I will continue some parts of my ritual. I will definitely keep calling my mom every week. I also might keep reading every day or maybe just once a week, not sure yet. For the next book I want to read I have picked out a programming book that I have started on a little bit. Also I have started to watch some videos every day on circuits and electronics, which relates to my major and interests, and I feel relates to reading in the sense that even though it is not reading it is still learning information. I am not sure if I will continue to journal every day or even every so often, even though I have enjoyed it, I have not loved it. Also I feel that it can take up too much time that I would rather spend elsewhere. I do not think I will continue the daily vocabulary word.
        My life has looked pretty much the same, besides a few differences this past month. Besides the obvious of me doing this ritual every day, I have been texting my mom throughout the week more often than I was before. Also I have found myself having more time, whether it is free time or study time, than I felt I had before. Because of this I have been able to put more time into school, and into my own stuff, such as my rocketry club, and free time. In my free time I have played video games which is not something I have done during the summer and also have talked to my high school friends more, which is not something I had done much once I got to school. The only event that affected my ritual was going to my grandmother’s for dinner every Sunday. Even then, that was a weekly activity, and I had scheduled my ritual around my routine, so there was no interference.
        In conclusion, I feel I have been successful during this journey and have learned many things about myself and the world and other people in general. One thing I have learned about everyone is that the excuse “Oh, I do not have time, I cannot do that” is a weak excuse. It is fine to say that you cannot go out one night with your friends because you have an assignment due that night that you need to get finished, but to say that every week and when it is a recurring excuse, then it is an issue. During this ritual I have found that you can make time for anything, especially if you are willing to change your schedule. This is also something that I have learned about myself is that I have more time to do anything than I had thought before. The reason the goal of time management is important to me is because I feel like it is an essential life skill. If you cannot manage your time well then I do not believe you can be successful. I feel the same goes for the goal of focus and concentration because if you cannot focus on something then how will you achieve it? For the vocabulary goal I put it in there to improve my academic capability. The reason for wanting to improve my relationship with my mom was because she is an important person in my life and I want to stay close to her. I feel that I can say that I have achieved all these goals during the time of this ritual, and that I was successful during this journey. Also I would say that my life has improved throughout this time. In the beginning I was academically doing well, and it stayed that way which I would say is a success. But emotionally I was fine, I was not bad but not great. I had felt a little stressed out with school, work, and being in a new environment and felt detached from my mom. However, by the end I felt a lot less stressed, because I had more time, and felt closer to my mom, so now I am emotionally well, which I would say is also a success.