Trakas 




Peter Trakas
Grierson
ENG 101
11/23/2025
Do Engineering Students Even Have a Social Life?
        I have only gone out once this semester. It was in the beginning of the semester, the first weekend, to the first football game. Some may find that shocking but to me it is not. It is not because I hate going out but I would rather spend my time elsehow. A common notion in people’s minds is one of  engineers/engineering majors being socially awkward, introverted, having no social life, isolated, and unable to talk to people of the opposite sex. This can all be condensed down to “Engineers(/engineering majors) do not have a social life and like to go out and have fun.” While this may be true to some degree, it is more complex than that. I have been told this directly and indirectly by many people in many different ways.
        Firstly, many people say and ask the question of “Do engineering majors have a life?” What this can be rephrased as, or what some people think or how they feel when they ask this question is “engineering majors are socially isolated.” Several sources seem to back up this perspective. For example the EngineerGirl Team post, the Quora response from Jesper Madsen, the Quora response from John Szetela, and the Reddit post titled “Lonely engineer?” all have something in common. In most of them someone, whether it might be an engineering student or not, asks a question similar to “do engineering majors go out?” and then several people, whether it might be former/current engineering students or not, respond with their opinion on it. Some viewpoints they give are simple one sided yes or no answers with no elaboration, while others give more valuable feedback. Some give advice to current engineering students on how to become less socially isolated and how to balance their personal life and school work, while some current engineering students give their opinion on the situation. Some things the current engineering students say are how they feel that they cannot go out because “engineering and STEM majors come with a heavy workload”, or how “[y]ou will often have many weekends in, catching up on homework and studying” (EngineerGirl). While other engineering students go on to say how they do go out, and have to manage their time well such as having “designated Friday and Saturday nights as (....) time off.” (EngineerGirl). Out of these ones that do “go out” I notice how they tend to almost never mention going out to clubs, bars, or parties, rather instead they have small hangouts with friends, which is fine but to most people that is what they mean when they say “go out” is to clubs, bars, or parties. Because of this to non-engineering students it seems that engineering students are socially isolated but really they are just not socializing with them. 
        Personally, I can relate to this, and think most engineering students can. In my time here at Arizona State University during this semester I have only gone out once, as I mentioned earlier, but that is not to say that has been my only social interaction this semester. Even though most of my time is taken up by school and then a good amount of my non-school time is taken up by work, I still have time for social interactions. I am on the phone everyday talking with people, not solely about school but casual conversations as well, which include shooting the shit, talking about our hobbies, and what we enjoy in life. In addition, in  my engineering club, rocketry club, which is full of engineering students, even though we are doing club work, it cannot be considered we are hanging out in our free time, we talk to each other there not just about the club but about anything else. Furthermore, I have heard experiences from others which are not my own also support this idea of mine. In my engineering class, my group every Monday when we come in at the start of class talks about what we did over the weekend, and not one of them has ever said that they just stayed at home by themselves and did not do anything. They go on to talk about how they went to their friends house and did whatever, or even went to some activity by the school. I am sitting down at my team’s table and one of our teammates walks in and asks me “So how was your weekend man?”
“Oh it was fine, I just went to work and my grandmothers. What did you do?”
“Went to a friend's house, watched some anime, played some pool. It was nice.”
“Nice, what anime”
“Anime killer X 3D,” (I do not know, I do not watch anime, confuses me). “Do you watch anime?”
“No, but I have seen Castlevania, is that an anime, I think it sort of is?”
“Oh yeah, that counts.” Then our other teammates join in on the conversation and it turns into something else not about anime. Also in the same class, which is full of engineering students, I overhear what some other kids talk about what they like and what they do and it is pretty similar. 
So, because of this I do not feel isolated or feel that is the case for the majority of engineering students. But other non-engineering students may see it this way since they never interact with them when they go out with their friends, when in reality it seems that engineering students just hang out with each other or a small group of friends.
Secondly, another question many people ask is “Why are engineering majors so weird and hard to talk to?” Many people also think that engineering students are “socially awkward” or "antisocial." Several sources seem to back this up as well making it a mainstream belief. For example the Cornell “Study” on “Rizz Levels by Major”, the Quora response from Brian Kyckelhahn, and the Reddit post from Mech101Engr, all hit the same central idea. That central idea being something akin to “engineering students(/engineers) are social outcasts, weird, and hard to talk to.” In the two sources, the Reddit post and the Quora forum, directly says or asks why engineering students are socially awkward, while in the Cornell “Study” shows through “research” how engineering students have managed to repel potential sexual partners rather than attract them which is not the case for any other major (Science Department). In the Quora post they just directly assume how all engineering students are socially awkward and assume they all act and think the same way, which directly reinforces the idea of this stereotype. In the post the question is “Why are engineers socially awkward?” Also the response given goes on to say multiple times “they are [this way],” through the use of such language it directly assumes and states how this one group of people all behave this one way, reinforcing the stereotype (Kyckelhahn). The user then proceeds to say how these engineering students think they are so much smarter than everyone else and view going out and partying as pointless and a waste of their time and below them, and are robots unequipped with basic social skills and are unhuman. This user gives a very cynic view on engineering students and says directly and indirectly that they are not normal humans, they are different and unlike everyone else. In the Reddit post the user who asks why most engineering students are socially awkward is an engineering student himself and feels that he has observed that most of his peers are this way. Other users respond to his post giving their own views and some of them are similar to the Quora response saying “this is how all engineers are, so they all act this way.” Others give a more insightful point of view, such as how society has created this image of how people should act and based on how you act you are into certain things, including engineering students, so as humans we contort ourselves to fit society’s own view and how if you act outside of these ways you are not normal and do not fit in. In the Cornell “Study” I mentioned earlier they show how their results prove that engineering students are weirdos. The reason I have been putting quotation marks around “study” and “research” when I have been talking about this source is because it is not an actual study and does not contain actual research. This was very apparent early on as the researchers' names are “Harry Kuntz” and “Anita Dick,” which are sexual puns by the way. They go on to fabricate some elaborate study saying how through their research, which they did not really mention what it was and how this study was conducted which leads to further proof that this is fake, they found engineering majors repel the opposite sex through being weird which is some new finding and how no one even knew this was possible (Science Department). Even though this is not an actual source so it might not be considered trustworthy it still shows how people genuinely think this way of engineering students. I think that when society begins joking about something, it has already become a widely accepted idea.
Through my own personal experience I would say it generally backs it up. For example a decent amount of my friends from high school also went into engineering programs, and the overwhelming majority of them are people that you could say are weird or socially inept, and are also virgins still, which fits society’s view. As for myself, people genuinely thought I was autistic because of how awkward I was to them. As to why I would act this way I am not sure, I did not do it on purpose, maybe I did it because that is how society says these people act so maybe I acted that way myself unwillingly, but it is something I am trying to change. Also this is not just something people say about me, it is something I have noticed myself. For example, when I have talked to new people here sometimes I will realize that my heart is beating really fast, I might be sweating a little bit, and am having trouble thinking what to say. However I think it is more complex than just “all engineering students are the same way,” which is socially inept.
In conclusion, I do agree with the negative outlook on engineering majors' social skills and social life. However, I think it is more complex and nuanced than most make it out to be, and I am left to wonder if this is how they are because society has made them feel that they should be this way. 











Works Cited
EngineerGirl Team. “Do engineering majors have a social life?” Engineergirl, 26 July 2021, https://www.engineergirl.org/143222/Do-engineering-majors-have-a-social-life. 


fbifykgj. “Lonely engineer?” Reddit, 6 August 2024, https://www.reddit.com/r/civilengineering/comments/1em0sid/lonely_engineer/. 


kaarimmmmmmm. “I left engineering due to depression.” Reddit, 4 October 2023, https://www.reddit.com/r/EngineeringStudents/comments/16zstj0/i_left_engineering_due_to_depression/. 


Kyckelhahn, Brian. “Why are engineers socially awkward?” Quora, 4 November 2014, https://www.quora.com/Why-are-engineers-socially-awkward. 


Madsen, Jesper. “Do engineers typically enjoy going out, partying, and socializing as much as non-engineers?” Quora, 4 November 2024, https://www.quora.com/Do-engineers-typically-enjoy-going-out-partying-and-socializing-as-much-as-non-engineers. 


Mech101Engr. “Why are most engineers socially awkward?” Reddit, 6 May 2020, https://www.reddit.com/r/AskEngineers/comments/geu7fp/why_are_most_engineers_socially_awkward/. 


Science Department. “Cornell Study Shows Computer Science Majors, Engineers Have Negative Rizz.” The Cornell Daily Sun, 20 April 2023, https://www.cornellsun.com/article/2023/04/cornell-study-shows-computer-science-majors-engineers-have-negative-rizz. 


Szetela, John. “Do engineers tend to be less social than the rest of the population?” Quora, 4 November 2019, https://www.quora.com/Do-engineers-tend-to-be-less-social-than-the-rest-of-the-population.