Trakas 




Peter Trakas
Grierson
ENG 101
9/21/2025
Literacy Narrative
        Throughout my time in school I have taken an English class each year, just like every other student. I feel that my experience has vastly differed each class, each year. How so? Because each year I have had a different teacher and they have shaped the whole experience of that year. They have done this through either being a literacy sponsor of mine and supporting me in an English setting, or by being an anti-sponsor and not giving me much help or putting much care into me succeeding as an English student. Because of this every year, besides one,  I would change English levels, by voluntarily moving up to the accelerated class and then choosing to move down again. I think part of my disdain for English class is that I feel it is too subjective of a class, and there is no definite way of doing something. For example there are a million ways to analyze a piece of literature and submit that analysis essay and get one hundred percent, there are also a million ways to submit a failing paper. Because of this my own writings and thoughts were rational to me and aligned with the rubric even though the teacher did not seem to agree, which was evident through grading.
        In the sixth grade I was in the normal level class, and had a teacher that I would consider a literacy sponsor, and maybe even my favorite. Even though I do not remember her name I remember several details of her. She wore something similar everyday, it was a blouse with some design on it, whether it was floral or a pattern, black pants, and black leather shoes. She wore her hair the same way also every day, she had it cut to bob length but instead of it being straight she kept her hair’s natural curliness and it’s gingery brunette color. She was maybe around her mid or late fifties and had a husband and about five feet five inches tall. I always imagined she was a grandmother but I am not sure if she was, but since I did it made me feel more comfortable and safe around her since that is how I felt around my grandmother. She would always support the kids in her class, even outside of an English setting, for example if a kid was upset she would try anything to help them and make them feel better. Also she shared some wisdom with us that has stuck with me even to this day, it was something along the lines of “you never just get over something in your life, instead you go through it like a bush with thorns and those thorns then stick with you,” she said this in relation to either her mother or sister dying. In her class she would give us a vocabulary test every week, and since I did well on them consistently she pulled me aside to talk one day. What she wanted to talk about was moving up English classes since she felt that was something good for me and would help me succeed as a student. I agreed with her so then in the seventh grade I was in the accelerated class.
        My seventh grade teacher, whose name I also do not remember, I would consider to be an anti-sponsor of mine, possibly even my least favorite English teacher I had. She also dressed similarly to my sixth grade teacher with a designed blouse, black pants, and black shoes. She too had a bob cut but had straight hair instead and dark brown, maybe black, colored hair. She was a little younger, I think maybe mid thirties, and also thinner than the sixth grade teacher. I do not feel that she had much interest in seeing me succeed as an english student. I remember that since I was not in accelerated English the year before I had missed out on some topics, and when I brought that up to her, because she had mentioned those topics in class, she did not explain anything to me and did not care. Also I remember when the class got back their first essays and everyone discussed their grades with each other. At my table, which were all of my guy friends, we were all in shock about our grades, which were F’s and D’s. The whole class then shared their grades with each other and we noticed that every guy got an F or D, maybe a C at best, while every girl got an A, or a B at worst. I thought this was strange and made me think “maybe girls are just better at English than guys,” but then one of my guy friends said to us how the teacher is sexist and favors the girls much more, which had not even crossed my mind. This then led to a couple months of us at our table speculating how maybe she has no control of her husband at home and takes it out on us at school, which I enjoyed and took part in. This was probably the beginning of my dislike for English class and made me feel that its grading was based on bullshit completely up to the teacher.
        After that, COVID happened so the rest of seventh grade and all of eighth grade we were not in school. Because of this, I cannot talk about my eighth grade teacher much since I did not have much time with her. However, in ninth grade, we were back in person so I can talk about him. My ninth grade teacher, whose name I do remember, was named Mr. Mohyuddin. I would also consider him an anti-sponsor of mine. He also wore the same thing everyday which was a sweater, jeans, different popular shoes everyday, and those glasses that acted as a necklace. Again, on our first assignment that we got back I got a much lower grade than I expected. The assignment was to choose something that means something to you and write about it and what it means to you and why, so I did. In my head I thought, “okay this is an easy hundred percent assignment,” but when I got it back I got an eighty percent, which is not bad but just much lower than I thought. His comments on my work were pretty much saying “this is not good, how does it mean something to you?” Which really reinforced the idea in my head how English assignments are not graded on a solid set of rules.
        After ninth grade, I moved down a level, but then I got support from my teacher to move back up a level, so I did. Then in eleventh grade I felt, again, that the grading was too abstract and not concrete, so I was fed up with it and moved back down a level. In the end I think I would still say I do not really like English, but I am glad that I only have one more semester after this one.
        


Works Cited